---
title: "Books"
tags:
---

1. **_The Guide to Wine Tourism in Portugal - O Guia do Enoturismo em Portugal_** is published by [Zest](http://www.zestbooks.pt/#!product/prd15/3183810111/guia-de-enoturismo-em-portugal) and is available in Portuguese and English As more people look to visit wineries and vineyards and discover their stories, this book, by the wine critic _Maria João Almeida,_ can help to find the best locations in Portugal. The guide, with a vintage look, features more than a hundred wine tours from nineteenth-century palaces to boutique hotels and century-old farm houses. It is not merely a list, the author explains the characteristics of each region and its wines, tells a brief story about each winery, and suggests some of the wines to taste in each one. It offers ideas for the best places to eat and sleep in each region and a short explanation of the main Portuguese grape varieties.
2. **_The Pleasure of Port - João Paulo Martins_** The mysteries of Port Wine are explained in a short and easy to understand book. From its origin in the vineyards of the Douro Valley to the port wine cellars of Vila Nova de Guia. There is information on the history, manufacturing methods, grape varieties, and the rules of the **Denominação de Origem**. But most importantly, the various types of Port Wine are clearly explained, including their best time for consumption, whether to drink now or save for later, and buying tips. In addition, there is a lot of useful information about the industry, visitor centers, and a glossary of technical terms.
3. The Taste of Portugal ~ by Edite Vieira. This is the definitive guide to the food of Portugal, winner of a Gourmand World Cookbook Award. As well as recipes there are also explanations of Portuguese food and traditions. It's an excellent gastronomic guide with recipes from every region including their Portuguese names. Essential reading for anyone planning to travel to Portugal.
