---
title: 'Burmester and Kopke, the jewels in the crown'
date: 2016-01-01
tags:
- Andresen
- Burmester
- Dalva
- Food/Wine
- Rui Falcão
- white port
---
Port wine has suffered and continues to go through times of trouble and distress, problems that have accentuated over the past decade. Source: [Burmester e Kopke, as jóias da coroa](http://fugas.publico.pt/Vinhos/357132_burmester-e-kopke-as-joias-da-coroa) By Rui Falcão; photo: Dato Daraselia The younger wines continue to be admirable and the last decade and a half has even been one of the most prolific of all time, with extraordinary successes spanning the years 2000, 2003 and 2007, topped with a resounding pronouncement of 2011. But despite the excellence of the wines the truth is that the successive financial crises that hit the main port wine markets did not add tranquility to the sector. Adding to the international financial crisis were cultural and cyclical factors, such as the international trend towards a life more light and "healthy", a fashion that evangelizes the abstinence of sweet wines. As if these setbacks were not enough, we still have to add to the list the progressive aging of the image of port wine and its admirers, who are mostly associated with a not so young age group. One might think that this sad accumulation of circumstances would be enough misfortune for one of the sectors of the Portuguese economy that gives more prestige and notoriety to Portugal, but unfortunately this is not how recent history has run. To the dramas imported from the economic reality, we had to add a fratricidal price war between companies and competing groups that helped steer port wine in directions less desirable and little consistent with its traditions. The good news is that the problems are known, and they have been studied, identified and analyzed and are likely to be overcome if tackled in time. An enterprise that requires a joined up thinking where the firms undertake a sequential and structured process. Among the many options for success is investing in market segments hitherto little explored, particularly in white port wines and in the more elitist segment of tawny wines. One of the relatively unexpected trends is based on the recent offering of white port wine, either in the categories of wines with an indication of age or of the harvest (_Colheita_), opening new markets that for years few believed in. The surprises have been many and interesting, providing a new chapter for port wine, capturing new markets in a niche that favors the image of some less well known producers. In this group special attention and praise is deserving of the pioneering _[Andresen](http://www.jhandresen.com/)_, as well as the excellence of the _[Dalva Colheita](http://www.cdasilva.pt/)_ and the _[Kopke](http://www.sogevinus.com/kopke)_ with indication of age. The last decade and a half was also characterized by an organic concentration of the sector, where strong foreign investment led to the creation of large groups that collected together the historical brands of port wine. The _Sogevinus_ represents part of this new reality, bringing together four reference names well known to Portuguese consumers, _Barros_, _Calem_, _Kopke_ and _Burmester_, some of the leading names of one of the world's major fortified wines. _Kopke_ and _[Burmester](http://www.burmester.pt/)_ stand out clearly, decisively entering the class of excellence, sharing tasks in an exemplary manner. While _Kopke_ shines brightly in the white port wine category, where few excel, _Burmester_ surprises in the "tawnies", especially in the always difficult and delicate world of the _Colheita_. It is in _Colheita_ port wines that _Burmester_ exceeds itself, reaching truly exceptional quality levels that reveal a sensibility for a style out of the ordinary. A style that is particularly difficult and demanding in the quality of base wine, a family that does not allow imperfections, imposing a rigor and sensitivity that few houses can understand and attain. It is not easy or simple to keep a wine from a single harvest in perfect condition without losing richness or complexity, without letting tiredness take hold of it, without evidence of the symptoms of old age, while still maintaining a reinvigorating freshness that makes the wine jovial, rich and exciting. Because in fact we speak of freshness when we discuss the excellence of _Colheita_ Port. And freshness is both the most decisive, but also the most difficult, trait to achieve in the family of _Colheitas_. And it is the freshness that we talk about when we taste the wines of the _Burmester Colheita_, as I had occasion recently to do in Gaia, in a heavenly tasting. A recurrent and oblique freshness which is even more noticable in the majesty of the _Burmester 1952 Colheita_, one of the greats of the category. But even in wines more "young", from 1989 for example, the freshness and richness are present in the nose and mouth with a shamelessness that animates the soul and refreshes in the final taste. The wine from _Kopke_ that most surprises and causes a shiver is the enthusiastic _Kopke White 30 Years_, a white port, brilliant, alive and powerful, mellow but intense and subtle, vibrant but simultaneously delicate and civilized. A great port wine with a finish energetic, serious, vivacious and cheerful.