---
title: 'Porto wants to show the hidden River Vila'
tags: 
- Architecture/Patrimony
- Itineraries/Tours
- PATRÍCIA CARVALHO
- Rio Vila
- River Vila
---

by PATRÍCIA CARVALHO Público 11/26/2015 - 10:30 **The plan of Porto's water company - _Águas do Porto_ - was presented to the administration of the mayor, Rui Moreira, at a meeting on 2 December.** The municipal company _Águas do Porto_ wants locals, visitors and tourists to know better the unknown heritage beneath their feet, that is, the underground routes which run under the city streets. The River Vila, which runs mainly beneath _Rua Mouzinho da Silveira_, is the first course of water that the company wants to open to the public, and the competition for the project plan should be launched later this year. The project for the River Vila gallery was presented to the Executive Council of Porto at the extraordinary meeting that President Rui Moreira scheduled for December 2, but the intention of _Águas do Porto_ to move forward with this process had already been announced in the provisional management documents distributed to the council last week. The river runs between _São Bento_ railway station and the _Praça da Ribeira_, under the streets of _Mouzinho da Silveira_ and _São João_. Those in charge of city management were already channeling the route of the water in the nineteenth century when it served mainly as a deposit for the detritus of the local inhabitants. The branch that the _Águas do Porto_ want to return to the eyes of visitors runs between _São Bento_ railway station and the _Largo de São Domingos_ and was channeled by a municipal decision in 1872. The document that will be presented to the town council, and that PÚBLICO has had access to, describes the River Vila "lying in a tunnel, mostly consisting of granite shafts and vaults, in itself of historical, cultural and patrimonial beauty". There are 350 meters that run beneath _Mouzinho da Silveira_ and where, according to the _Águas do Porto_, one can find traces "from the Roman era to the present". The plan of the municipal company is that access to this underground world will be through the São Bento metro station, "by a room where there will be a ticket office, a location for exhibitions and presentations, and a successive door accessing the visitor route ". This is not, however, a final solution and is still being discussed with the Metro of Porto. The project is budgeted at 820 thousand euros - 120 thousand of which will be used for the preparation of the project - and will only be completed, by meeting the deadline of early 2018. The _Águas do Porto_ believe that "the originality of the project will be a source of attraction, with the possibility of it joining the other underground routes of identical type existing in the city." The provisional documents of the municipal company classify as "problematic \[...\] the situation of abandonment of the historic assets pertaining to the urban water cycle." To try to overcome this problem, the _Águas do Porto_ conducted a study of the _Valuation of Patrimonial Assets_. The patrimony was recorded and described, and this work has resulted in the intention of advancing with two projects in 2016. One is the River Vila, the other is the rehabilitation of the _Pasteleira_ reservoir", in the sense of its conversion to a multipurpose space for cultural activities," reads the document. Besides the reuse of these two areas currently closed to the city, the _Águas do Porto_ also intends to proceed in 2016 with the rehabilitation of the Water Pavilion in the _Parque da Cidade_, in work that should extend to 2017. Prepared during the presidency of Pedro Matos Fernandes, these projects will no longer be presented by the civil engineer, as he has been chosen by António Costa to be Minister for the Environment in the Government which takes office on Thursday afternoon. source: Público picture: MIGUEL NOGUEIRA see also: [http://expresso.sapo.pt/sociedade/2016-03-13-Debaixo-do-Porto-ha-um-rio](http://expresso.sapo.pt/sociedade/2016-03-13-Debaixo-do-Porto-ha-um-rio)