---
title: 'Parque Biológico of Gaia'
tags: 
- Avintes
- natural park
- Nature
- Parque Biológico
- River Febros
- Vila Nova de Gaia
- wildlife
---

Source: [Parque Biologico de Gaia](http://www.parquebiologico.pt/index.php)   A natural park in Vila Nova de Gaia **Description of Park** Situated on the outskirts of Vila Nova de Gaia, in the districts of Avintes and Vilar de Andorinho, the _Parque Biológico_ extends through the valley of the river Febros, a tributary of the left bank of the river Douro, with its old country houses, mills and water-wheels. The sections of magnificent landscape that are enjoyed today are the fruit of the actions of humans on nature, in a quest for better conditions for agriculture, livestock, milling and, in general, for all activities. For centuries, those who stopped here - for example the people who built the Mound of Lijo (dolmen described in a 1116 document, located near the _Parque Biológico_ and today unknown); who built Castro Guedes (a pre-Roman fortified village, located 500 m from the park); that populated the "abientes villa" donated by D. Gundesindo to the Lavra Monastery in the year 897; who claimed Santiago de Compostela by the "Viseu Road" (which crosses the Park) - proceeded to clear the woods and forests, building walls and terraces, opening mines and wells, modeling and fixing the bed of the Febros river for the installation of mills, and replacing the original plant species with others of more agricultural or forestry interest. The altitude of the park varies only between 98 m and 47.8 m and its relief is in large part artificial, since the old farmers raised the land in terraces. The _Parque Biológico_ is situated in a region with a general Atlantic-maritime climate, characterized by a fresh summer and a mild winter, and a rainfall above 1000 mm. The mists are frequent, even in summer, and the air is very humid all year round. The park is however set in a micro-climate partially protected from the Atlantic winds by its low altitude and the presence of a small mountain (Monte da Virgem, 233 m); the signs of a continental climate are noted by more extreme temperatures than in the rest of the region. **Parque Biológico: Memorial countryside and recreation area** The positive approval that the Parque Biológico holds with the urban and suburban population of the region resides in the fact that it constructs a memorial of the rural space prior to urbanization and in it visitors, many originating in that same world, find references to their youth. Therefore, the park plays one of the most important functions of green areas, contact with nature as a source of psychological balance. This feature is enhanced by the apparent disorganization of the park space, resulting from the refusal of the formal garden or park model. In fact the _Parque Biológico_ seeks to preserve the typical landscape of the region at the time when it was essentially a large agricultural space. The elements of this landscape - the hedgerows, the cultivated fields, the back roads, the houses, the mills, the river, the walls, the ponds, wildlife and spontaneous flora, people and their culture - are represented in the _Parque Biológico_ and are preserved and explained to the visitor who sees again the mill of his childhood or the stream where he learned to swim. An understanding of this landscape and the comparison with the surroundings, rural-urban and urban, results in a greater awareness of environmental problems. In the _Parque Biológico_, more important than learning the names of trees or birds, is to realize the contrast, to leave the road and enter the paths, to leave behind the noise of cars and listen to the birds and the lapping of the river, and after an hour or so of immersion in this world that we are losing, to return abruptly to the confusion of a busy city. So open your eyes and minds to the need to plan the territory, to maintain large green spaces in cities, to protect rivers, fauna, flora, traditional construction, a whole set of reference values ​​of our civilization. Environmental education is a process of citizen captivation and involvement in solving environmental problems that afflict humanity; a good way to start this process is by showing the contradictions of the big city, and what that means for each of us in terms of our quality of life. **THE PARQUE BIOLÓGICO, TODAY** There was established, in this area of ​​about 50 hectares, a nature discovery path of about 3 km, along which the attention of visitors is awoken, by displayed information, to the various components of Natural and Cultural Heritage. Starting from the permanent exhibition in the welcome center, visitors are invited to enjoy the scenery of the Febros valley in all its aspects. The oak grove, the dam, the birds, the geology, the nests, the watermill wheels, are examples of the topics dealt with "in loco". It is hoped that the visitor realizes the ancient role of humans in the shaping of this landscape, and not consider it as a foreign element of the natural world. Along the way some animals in captivity and semi-captivity, in quality facilities, allow live contact with the wildlife of Portugal. The _Parque Biológico_ does not want to follow the "zoo" model, now outdated, but believes that people are not content to watch film about fauna, and have a real need for live observations. Deer, bucks. European-bison, foxes, round-winged eagles, kites, jackdaws, mallard-ducks, water hens, seagulls, etc., live and breed on the grounds of the Park. As an animal park it was considered, in 2003, the best in Portugal. But it is good to note, the _Parque Biológico_ only has domesticated animals in captivity, or those which for one reason or another are unable to survive in nature. All the wild animals of Portuguese fauna that come to the park in a state that allows their recovery are treated and returned to nature in an appropriate place. Since its opening, the _Parque Biológico_ has received more than 10,000 animals for recuperation. The park also cooperates with the administrative authorities and police, receiving animals seized from people who hunted or held them illegally. In parallel, the _Parque Biológico_ is also a nature reserve which protects and promotes wild fauna and flora. More than 70 species of birds live or visit the park during migration, of which more than 30 species nest there. Add to this 18 species of mammals, 14 reptiles and amphibians, 9 fish, and several dozen invertebrates, along with the 300 wild species of plants, and an idea of ​​the extent of the natural value of the site becomes evident. Because of the protective measures taken, new species are settling, and others are increasing their population; today in the park, there abound in freedom, wild rabbits, squirrels, herons and other species. translated from website