---
title: 'Ugly Fruit expands to Porto after avoiding 200 tonnes of waste'
tags: 
- Business
- Economy
- Food
- Wine
- Fruta Feia
- Ugly Fruit
---

LUSA  Público 12/19/2015 - 11:45 The _[Ugly Fruit](http://frutafeia.pt/en)_ (Fruta Feia) project, which in the last two years has prevented 200 tonnes of fruit and vegetables from being wasted, in the Lisbon region alone, is now traveling to Porto, where it is looking for two delivery points. Currently with 800 customers distributed among the three delivery points in the district of Lisbon - two in the capital and another at Parede in Cascais - and 50 associated farmers, mainly in the western region, _Ugly Fruit_ will now expand to the northern area. Isabel Soares, one of the mentors of the _Ugly Fruit Cooperative_, explained that the outcome of these two years of activity is "super-positive and has far exceeded expectations. We avoided four tons of waste per week and in the next days we will reach 200 tons of waste avoided from the date of commencement in November 2013, these are very high numbers that we did not expect", she confessed. The _Ugly Fruit Cooperative_ results from an idea of ​​four friends to take advantage of about a third of the fruit and vegetables that supermarkets reject, on the grounds that they do not have the perfect appearance that the consumers seek. The next challenge is, according to Isabel Soares, to open two delivery points in Porto, in May next year, in order to respond to the farmers of the northern region who contacted the project when it began in Lisbon, asking for help because they cannot exhaust their produce owing to their appearance. "The idea of ​​going to Porto is to help the region's farmers. At this time, with three delivery points in Lisbon, we can only help the farmers of the western region", she said, adding that they already have made contact with the original farmers, who showed interest when the initiative took off. At this point, Isabel Soares revealed that _Ugly Fruit_ will hire two people to streamline the delivery points in Porto, following the business model already in use, where"roughly" one delivery point justifies one job. "The two people will first train with us in Lisbon, and then we will support them in the north. It is hoped to start with the delivery of 500 baskets in the two points, not on the first day, but rising steadily throughout the first month. Starting with 100 in the first week and continuing to rise", she said. Currently, the baskets of 'ugly fruit' - small with 3/4kg and five to seven varieties and large with 6/8kg and seven to nine varieties, consisting of fruits and vegetables varying from week to week in line with the time of year - they can be collected on Mondays in the Casa Independente, in Intendente, on Tuesdays in the Ateneu Comercial de Lisboa and on Thursdays in the Sociedade Musical União Paredense, in Parede. "Beautiful people eat ugly fruit" is the motto of the project, that attempts to associate "good ideals to people who are willing to eat" this non-standard fruit and avoid food waste, concluded Isabel Soares. According to the latest data, from the UNs _Organization for Food and Agriculture_, 1.3 billion tons of food are wasted annually. Translated from original article available at: http://www.publico.pt/local/noticia/fruta-feia-expandese-para-o-porto-depois-de-evitar-200-toneladas-de-desperdicio-1717922